- [Instructor] Let us also see the demo of async processing
with deferred result of string
as a return type from your controllers.
So let's go back to the IDE,
and inside our search controller
instead of returning a callable of string on line number 24
this time I'm going to return a deferred result of string,
so let's do that first, like that.
And we will have to create an instance
of this deferred result right out here.
This will be of string,
let's create a variable and instantiate this.
Okay, now we have already seen
the implementation with callable.
Callable is executed concurrently
on behalf of the application,
but when you use a deferred result
the application can produce the result
from a thread of its choice,
which means that this deferred result object
that is being utilized now,
we are supposed to manage the threads for it.
We have the choice of managing the threads for it.
Now what I'm going to do is on line 24
I'm just going to autowire that async task executor object
so that we can grab that and we can submit the task
so that we take care of the threads,
so let's autowire that object.
We've already instantiated the bean
in the spring context configuration file,
so we need to do nothing more.
We just need to get that instance out in this controller.
And with the executor now I will submit
the task myself for the entire blocking calls,
so let's comment the portions from lines 46 to 43
because that is the callable implementation,
we don't want that right now,
and instead of that we are going to go ahead
with the deferred result implementation,
so how will that look like?
So we will just grab that task executor that we got hold of,
it was labeled as executor so let me get that,
and on this of course you can call the execute method.
That will demand a runnable,
and that runnable implementation
is basically the list of blocking calls
that will happen as part of this application,
and for us it is basically calling the database
to get the list of products as a database call.
Let's write a lambda expression quickly there,
and let's just take these lines,
37 to 41, copy, and paste on 46.
Once that's done of course this will demand you
to handle the interrupted exception.
Just surround it with try catch quickly,
and then that's done.
Once it is done, the difference in a deferred result
and callable is in deferred result you will have
to set that result explicitly, like this,
so we want to go back to search, okay,
and after you are out of that runnable implementation
then you can return that entire deferred result object,
so you need to do this explicitly for deferred result.
Just to iterate and be clear,
there are few things that we did a little differently
when we were trying to return
deferred result from this code.
First is we instantiated the deferred result object,
then we grabbed the thread pool task executor instance
and wired it to our controller.
We invoked the execute method on line 45 ourselves,
and then finally we set the value of the result
to the deferred result object.
Then we see framework suggests
that when you use deferred result
you will have to manage the threads yourself.
The thread pool task executor
that we have spawned in the configuration
is the one where you can configure your threads,
which means define the thread pool size
beside how much time the thread
is going to be alive, all of that.
So management of threads has to be done by you.
Vis a vis, when you use callable,
that's really not required.
However, by default Spring employs
a default task executor for async processing.
The name of that is simple async task executor,
so this is the one that we play by default
if you do not explicitly instantiate
thread pool task executor.
However, if you go with the default
implementation of async processing,
Spring will warn you saying that this is something
that you need to check because this task executor
may not be able to handle the load.
Moral of the story, when it's callable
you do not need to do all the extra things
that we have done right now for deferred result.
Additionally, you need to make sure that you manage
your threads yourself when you use deferred result.
The rest of the code does not change,
so I'm just going to do this build.
The end result in the HPlus application
in the browser is going to stay the same.
Nothing changes there, it's only the change in the API
that we have employed in order to run it,
so let's go home first and click on search.
Let me enter the search criteria.
This is going to be the same thing.
There is a simulation for the delay
for the blocking call of three seconds,
so we just going to click one, two, three,
and it will give us the results.
So the output also wouldn't change.
Async is supported, yes,
there was a separate thread with processing
spawned by the servlet container,
and whatever was a part of the runnable implementation
with the task executor dot submit call,
which is this one, that has a separate thread now,
so those blocking calls will be handed over to this thread.
However, as we remembered, the response is still open
because the database call is not
over yet from lines 51 to 54,
so after everything is done then we set the deferred result
and we return it, and that's how we get back to the view.
Now of course there are many other things
that you can do with this object.
You have certain callbacks that you can register,
what happens on completion,
and all of those things can be plugged in
easily to the application,
but as of now for this module we're restricting ourselves
to the discussion of only using
the callable and deferred result.
In addition to that, let me exhibit a quick thing.
We are going to do this change on line 47.
We are going to increase the delay time to six seconds.
If you remember in an application config
we had this delay specified to five seconds,
so let's see how our application behaves in this case.
So let's do the build again.
So basically we have crossed the timeout now.
The delay that is happening for all your blocking calls
is six seconds, so we are crossing the timeout.
So let's see how our application behaves.
So let's just go to the homepage first.
Go to search, enter some criteria.
One, two, three, four, five, six,
and then there's a problem.
So if you see the console you find out
that there is an async request timeout exception
because the search controller is now trying
to cause a blocking call, a delay of six seconds,
whereas the configuration was four, five seconds,
so how do we fix this?
We could just grab this exception class name,
go to our exception handler,
and you can provide a comma-separated list
of classes for this exception handler,
so you can actually add on to this list.
Let's import that class and say dot class.
So basically whenever this exception occurs in your code,
that's also going to be taken care of by exception handler,
and it is just going to tell the user
that something went wrong and it'll display the error page.
So let's go ahead and stop this
and run the build again to see this working.
So the point of doing this is basically
we do not want to see this HTTP Status 503 error page.
We want to see our error page, so let's monitor the build.
Okay, the build has gone well.
Let's go ahead and access home and go to search,
enter the criteria, and wait and see what happens now.
Yes, that looks perfect.
So now we are driven to our error page
rather than getting that HTTP Status 503 exception.
So this is how you can have multiple exceptions
being handled by the same exception handler.
Of course you may have a way better design
of how you want to have your exceptions handled,
but this is just to make sure
that we understand that exception handler
can be used for multiple exceptions.